
Spring 2025 Capstone Project Proposal

	We are Wes Mills and Artem Tikhomirov, the developers of this project, and we plan on creating a website that displays the fair value of stocks using various financial models in an easy to understand way, but with the option to show more detail if desired. The website will allow users to search for stocks using a built-in API that fetches stock financials from Yahoo Finance. The user can input assumptions like growth rates, discount rates, and more into their desired financial model and receive an adjusted fair value accordingly. The website will also compare this fair value versus the market price. We’ll also learn how to practically apply data visualization skills on this website as we display results using graphs and charts. We are thinking users will be able to hover over financial terms and see an explanation for what each bit of jargon means. We also plan on implementing a “simplified vs. expert mode” where users can choose between two settings with different levels of detail and information, depending on how familiar they are with the stock market. If the user is an amateur, they can choose the simplified mode and get just the information they need. If the user is very experienced, the expert mode will give them all the details they want.
	Both of us have a little experience using HTML, Javascript, and CSS to build websites, but we know we’re going to have to learn a lot more about web development considering how much we want to put into this website. Tikhomirov has had an experience implementing an API, but remembers it being very difficult, and is expecting to have to learn it all over again. We expect the API portions of this project to be the most difficult. We are both in a data visualization class– it has just started, so we plan on using the skills we’re learning in the class on the project as the semester progresses, learning hands-on as we go. 
	Between the two of us, Tikhomirov is very familiar with the stock market and its jargon, while Mills understands almost nothing. This will work in our favor. Because our goal is to make a fair value website that is simpler to understand than the rest, Mills will be able to know what is too confusing and what is explained comprehensively and simply. It would be difficult for a stock “expert” like Tikhomirov to be able to know what is and isn’t understandable for a complete amateur, after being involved in the field for so long. 
	Mills has slightly more experience developing websites, while Tikhomirov has some experience working with APIs, so Mills will focus more on the front end while Tikhomirov will focus more on the backend. This isn’t set in stone, however, as both are far from confident with each portion and will work with each other in order to be efficient and in order to learn as much as possible. 
	There are some fair value calculators on the internet already that we will be using both as inspiration and as a way to know how to make our website better and more comprehensive. One website, https://valueinvesting.io/GOOGL/valuation/fair-value, is very detailed and uses APIs well, while also having great data visualization. We think this is the best example of a fair value website, but we still plan on making ours better. There is a lot of information scattered all around the website that we would have condensed into one place. Another website, https://www.alphaspread.com/intrinsic-value-calculator, is straight to the point but is unpleasant to look at and doesn’t show much information. We are going to give more detail on our site. This website, https://stockinvestoriq.com/intrinsic-value-calculator/, goes too far in the opposite direction; it has a lot of small numbers and acronyms that are overwhelming and difficult to understand. Mills didn’t understand a thing, and even Tikhomirov agreed that it was very confusing. We are using this site as an example of what not to do– we plan on showing enough information to be helpful, but only the information that is necessary and in an easy to understand format that even a beginner can grasp. 
	There is a limitless amount of things we can add to the website, given how vast the field of stock trading is. For stretch goals we considered first, we thought of implementing historic price data, i.e. what was happening to a company twenty years ago. We could also implement a breaking financial news tab, insight and tips straight from professional stock analysts, and earnings imports. 
	Our stock fair value calculator will be an intuitive and helpful way to view a stock's fair value that is both easy to use for beginners and has adequate detail for experienced investors. We're cutting out all the fluff, and the unhelpful and inaccessible jargon. The stock market shouldn't be some hard to reach, esoteric realm reserved for big wigs on Wall Street-- investing is a wise decision for everyone, and we want to make it easy for everyone to begin.
	
